reference exchange to go through bibledit-web.
Need to look at current system, and leave it intact for the time being.
Need to look at current focus system.
To assemble xml for new focus message.
To store new focus message.
To update recipients: dbus - BibleTime and Xiphos to split in two.
To remove the old system for IPC.
Some of the old settings in the Reference Exchange Dialog can go out as their systems are taken down.


The threads are just a problem in Bibledit-Gtk. If we move all external programs such as outpost and bibledit-dbus
away from bibledit-gtk, and make it independent, that saves a real host of trouble.


Store: http://bibledit.org/demo/setfocus.php?book=1&chapter=2&verse=3&versification=english
http://localhost/bibledit/setfocus.php?book=1&chapter=2&verse=4

Retrieve: http://bibledit.org/demo/getfocus.php?channel=bibledit&book=1&chapter=2&verse=3&versification=english
Retrieve versifications: http://bibledit.org/demo/versifications.php
Versification correction to be implemented upon storage, to it stores the 'original' versification.
Versification correction to be implemented upon retrieval.
On retrieving focus, there should be a stable focus for a second or so before it releases the new focus.
The channel is stored in the database, and acts like an independent focus provider.



Bibledit needs a preference where the web site is entered and tested, and where the versification is set.
Once done, it then needs to send this reference through setfocus.php.
The preferences dialog could be the current reference exchange one, since it already deals with that.















task #9703: Import Bibles etc from the Online bible
The new bwoutpost has the capability to connect to the Online Bible and retrieve verses from it. Let's exploit this to get data into Bibledit.
Since we're going to redo the outpost things, we might as well do it properly.
Suggestions:
* Newer Delphi, which can convert from the Online Bible's charset to UTF-8.
* Outpost becomes a client to the server-based communications model.
* It can get the base URL passed on its commandline, so it knows where to go.
* If no URL is passed, it takes the default for use on Linux. That one points to the local host.
* On import, Bibledit sends a bunch of commands to the Outpost that do the querying of book and chapter count.
* On import, Bibledit sends a bunch of comamnds to the outpost for importing.
* Bibledit's listener handles all requests coming back and then does the import.
* Outpost normally is hidden, and tries to connect. If no connection gets established after say, 10 seconds, it shows and gives the error message.
* Once it connects, it hides, and so forth.






task #9762: Three Windows Outposts
Currently Bibledit only controls one Windows Outpost. However this is not sufficient. It is proposed to have three of these.

One for programs that prefer to run under cxoffice (e.g. BibleWorks).
One for programs that prefer wine, such as the Online Bible.
One for programs that only run on real Windows, e.g. Paratext, Translators' Workplace, and son on.

In the setup, each Outpost needs to know which appliance it communicates with.

The port number may have to be passed on the command line since two different TCP/IP port numbers are required on Linux. 

This requires a new outpost which no longer is being conteacted by bibledit, but an outpost that itself contacts the messages on Apache.












task #9764: cannot move reference list scroll bar when using find/replace
When Using Find/Replace, if the reference list starts out not at the top, it will remain not at the top when a Find/Replace is done. One cannot see the number of instances of the find string that have been found. 
When doing a Find/Replace, I want to know how many have been found. So it would be helpful that the find/replace routine also move the scroll bar of the Reference window to the top,
OR that the scroll bar be unfrozen so that the user can examine the references. 











task #9765: Resources should not refresh when moving between projects
I have really enjoyed being able to use the Resource window set to Alkitab.Sabda.org. This changes whenever I go to a new verse.

In BE I have several project open and translations in BE. It is annoying that BE refreshes the Resource window when I click on THE SAME verse in another project. Could you make it so that BE checks first to see if a different verse is clicked when changing windows?

Thanks for the powerful feature to use outside resources. 









task #9769: Searches and replacing with Word sensitivity
It would be nice if BE could have a check box for Finds and also Find/Replace that would be sensitive to words.
That way I could find "ia" as a separate word, and not "setia". One can use spaces, of course, but words can also be next to punctuation or sfm markers.









bug #27989: free reference navigation troubles
When using free navigation through Ctrl-G, the parsing of the string entered there is not well done when double spaces are entered.







bug #27991: Record separators
From time to time we have encountered USFM files from other sources that contain several instances of U+001E RECORD SEPARATOR.

As these would display badly in Go Bible, and they are probably present unintentionally due to passing through other editing programs, it would make sense for Bibledit to be enhanced to detect and report these as something needing attention.

I suppose the same could be said for any control characters other than those used in EOL markers.










bug #28053: Assistants keep going
When using the Backup assistant, for example, it never finishes, but want to restart each time. Other ones may be affected too.






bug #28057: Styles are applied to only the last paragraph in a selection
If the selection spans multiple paragraphs and the user selects a paragraph style like Quote/poetry only the last paragraph is given the style. Users expect it to affect all selected paragraphs.









bug #28079: window bugs
There is also the Ctrl-W keyboard accelerator that works in each window and closes it.
	Teus Benschop <teus>
Project Administrator
Fri 18 Dec 2009 07:09:27 PM CAT, comment #2:

Probably better than a menu choice to Close and Reset all windows would be a menu choice to Tile and Cascade all windows. This would be like TW and Paratext.
	Phil Fields <oreo>

(Flag as spamFlag as spam)

Mon 23 Nov 2009 12:27:05 PM CAT, comment #1:

Thanks for the suggestions for improvements, and sorry for the trouble! The bugs are serious. The suggestions for improvement are good!
	Teus Benschop <teus>
Project Administrator
Mon 23 Nov 2009 12:18:27 PM CAT, original submission:

I was giving a presentation today and had a very frustrating experience using 3.9.50. This was caused partly because of using a projector with smaller resolution than my normal external monitor.

If you grab one of the windows and happen to shove the title bar above the address bar, it is possible to shove it so that the whole title bar disappears. If you ever do this, DON'T RELEASE THE MOUSE BUTTON! If you do release that window, it will be impossible to move it, since the only handle for moving the window seems to be the title bar. THERE IS ALSO NO WAY TO CLOSE THE WINDOW. I was hoping that there would be a way to close a project window via the menus. Nope! Closing the whole program doesn't help. BE remembers the faulty window position and restores it to the unmovable place.

Another frustrating thing about the BE windows currently is that they seem to remember and and prioritize themselves according to the order in which they were loaded. The first loaded window will always allow itself to be covered up by any other window. Highlighting and using a window will not bring it to the front over a partially overlapping window.

It is also a minor frustration that the only handle for resizing BE project windows is in the lower right corner. If you happen to shove a window so that both the title window and the resize window are invisible, and if that was a recently opened window (covering other windows), you may have very little screen real estate left to work with.

In the context of a presentation, I did not feel it was a good time to try deleting something to reset all the windows. Afterward I did find that deleting configuration.1.xml in the .bibledit/configuration folder will reset all window settings.

So here is a list of suggested fixes:
*Make it impossible to shove the title bar so that it disappears.
*OR Make it possible to use a key like the Alt key, to grab and reposition a window that is all or partially off the program screen. Perhaps other window borders could be made sensitive to such a "grab" key.
*Make it so that windows that are activated will move to the front. This will make it possible to work with many windows, where it is likely that some will be partially overlapping.
*Make it possible to close a project from a menu.
*OR Make it possible close all windows and reset window defaults from a menu.
*Make it possible to resize windows from the lower left corner also.
*Please make it possible to resize windows from all four sides, left, right, top, and bottom.
*Make it so that when BE is restarted, it will not restore windows to an immovable location, or to a location that is totally off the screen and invisible.

Thanks!
Phil 








bug #28154: Does not always show the references in the xref
When clicking in a cross reference, it asks whether you'd like to load these into the reference window. When replying "Yes", and the references window is not visible, it is supposed to display this window, but it does not. If the window is already there, though, it works fine.





bug #28211: Does Bibledit check for correct nesting of quotation marks?
There's one check that does this. It is available from menu Checks / Punctuation / Matching pairs.
	Teus Benschop <teus>
Project Administrator
Mon 07 Dec 2009 12:30:00 AM CAT, original submission:

For translations that have quotation marks, double and single, does Bibledit check that these are correctly nested?

Example: This part of verse from the ABN is incorrectly nested.

“Agus abraigí: ‘Tá do shearbhónta Iacób féin ag teacht inár ndiaidh chomh maith.”’

It should be:

“Agus abraigí: ‘Tá do shearbhónta Iacób féin ag teacht inár ndiaidh chomh maith.’” 






bug #28294: Remember verse/chapter is now broken
One of the features I asked for was that BE be able to remember its chapter/verse position when moving from one book to another, or moving from one chapter to another. This feature can be activated under Preferences > User Interface.

That feature is now broken in version 4.0.01. 







bug #28295: find/replace misses many finds
Today I noted that when doing a simple find/replace, many examples of the search string were missed. It seemed to me that they were missed when I specified to search in the whole New Testament. When I searched one book at a time, they were all found. 







bug #28296: BE gets in a loop cycling through windows
Sometimes BE 4.0.01 gets in a loop where it unceasingly cycles through the open windows. The title bar of the program flashes the names of the open projects. And the verse number in the address bar was shifting between verse 0 and verse 17.

Another thing that is sort of broken is the clicking on footnote numbers. This often does not cause BE to show the footnote. 







